sql_model.md, before:

# SQL Model

# Generalities

Every record in the database has a unique identifier (`id` column). These identifiers are unique database wide, not because they are generated but because they are directly extracted from the NTDS database.

A few choices of data representation are made to make them more easily accessible. For example, dates and duration are represented in seconds or Unix Epoch timestamps, instead of the Microsoft standard representation (number of intervals of 100 nanoseconds elapsed since 1601 😠).

All of the columns can be `NULL` when no data was availabe or to represent the absence of something (example: Null for password last set attribute meaning the password was never set).

If a SYSTEM hive is provided, data will be decrypted. The encrypted version of the associated columns are kept under columns with the `_encrypted_` prefix in their name. These columns are not present if no decryptions has occured.

## Table `domains`

This table only has one record representing the domain object (object class `Domain-DNS`), it has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the object in the NTDS database (Example: 2042).
- `name` (TEXT): The full name of the domain (Example: 'windomain.local').
- `netbiosname` (TEXT): The NBT Name of the domain (Example: 'WINDOMAIN')
- `functionallevel` (TEXT): The functional level of the domain, on of the following values: `2000`, `2003`, `2008`, `2008R2`, `2012`, `2012R2` or `2016`.
- `GUID` (TEXT): The GUID of the domain (Ex. '822850bc-e868-4e83-bbb1-9f8fcde73355').
- `gplink` (TEXT): The GPLink attribute of the domain.
- `SID` (TEXT): The SID of the domain (Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513').
- `machineAccountQuota` (INTEGER): The machine-account-quota attribute of the domain (Ex. 10).
- `maxPwdAge` (INTEGER): The maxPwdAge attribute of the domain, **in seconds** (Ex. 3628800).
- `lockoutDuration` (INTEGER): The lockout-duration attribute of the domain **in seconds** (Ex. 60).
- `minPwdLength` (INTEGER): The minimum password length of the domain object (Ex. 7).
- `pwdHistoryLength` (INTEGER): The password history length of the domain objects (Ex. 24).
- `minPwdAge` (INTEGER): The minPwdAge attribute of the domain **in seconds** (Ex. 86400).
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the domain (Ex. 'DC=windomain,DC=local')

## Table `domain_dns`

This table contains all `domainDNS` records, not only the one representing the main domain. It has information in common with the `domain` table, but it contains every DNS zone, not only the main.

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the object in the NTDS database (Ex. 2042).
- - `name` (TEXT): The full name of the domain zone (Example: 'windomain.local').
- `netbiosname` (TEXT): The NBT Name of the domain zone (Example: 'WINDOMAIN')
- `GUID` (TEXT): The GUID of the domain zone (Ex. '822850bc-e868-4e83-bbb1-9f8fcde73355').
- `gplink` (TEXT): The GPLink attribute of the domain zone.
- `SID` (TEXT): The SID of the domain zone (Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513').
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the domain zone (Ex. 'DC=windomain,DC=local')

## Table `user_accounts`

This table stores user accounts (object class `Person`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the object in the NTDS databse (Ex. 2042).
- `encrypted_nthash` (BLOB): The encrypted NT hash as a binary blob.
- `nthash` (TEXT): The NT Hash (NTLM hash) of the account as a string if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None (Ex. '31d6cfe0d16ae931b73c59d7e0c089c0').
- `encrypted_lmhash` (BLOB): The encrypted LM hash as a binary blob.
- `lmhash` (TEXT): The LM hash of the account as a string if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None (Ex. 'aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee').)
- `UAC` (INTEGER): The user account control value as an integer (Ex. 4260352).
- `description` (TEXT): The description of the account (Ex. 'Built-in account for guest access to the computer/domain').
- `lastLogonTimestamp` (INTEGER): Timestamp **as a datetime representation** of the last time the account was used.
- `pwdlastset` (INTEGER): Timestamp **as a datetime representation** of the last time the password was set for this account.
- `admincount` (INTEGER): The admin-count attribute of the object (Example: 0). 
- `displayName` (TEXT): The display name of the account. 
- `GUID` (TEXT): The GUID of the object (Ex. 'b5c2765f-024a-47a7-b0d4-18b8783d54ed')
- `SID` (TEXT): The SID of the account (Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513-502')
- `SPN` (JSON): The list of service principal names of the account. This list is represented as a valid JSON list (Ex. `["https/HREWLPT1000004", "kafka/TSTWAPPS1000000"]`)
- `domain` (INTEGER): A foreign key to the associated domain object.
- `UPN` (TEXT): The user principal name of the account (Ex. 'FOO_BAR@windomain.local').
- `login` (TEXT): The login of the account. It is either the left part of the UPN if it has one, or the samaccountname (Ex. 'FOO_BAR').
- `samaccountname` (TEXT): The Sam Account Name of the account (Ex. 'FOO_BAR').
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the account (Ex. 'FOO_BAR').
- `encrypted_supplementalCredentials` (BLOB): The encrypted supplemental credentials blob.
- `supplementalCredentials` (JSON): Decrypted JSON list representing additional credentials stored in the object if the SYSTEM hive is provided, else None. These are mainly kerberos keys, or plaintext credentials when the flag `store password with reversible encryption` is set. It is a list of 2-tuples containing the type of key it represents, and the associated value.
    - Example: `[["aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96", "2fbb870186116974c53a0a8ed472bdd78c277305e7174f540ce3239340a8f33f"], ["aes128-cts-hmac-sha1-96", "a62b241a5e02eef50503ce5efd7728f1"], ["des-cbc-md5", "badfa8e9cd0ee5ba"], ["cleartext", "hunter2"]]`.
- `encrypted_lmPwdHistory` (BLOB): The encrypted attribute `lmPwdHistory`.
- `lmPwdHistory` (JSON): JSON list representing the history of LM hashes of the account if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None.
    - Example: `["db6aaf42a0a9aa7818ab94e45e093787", "9216c6bb1c679145c44870b8ace24e98"]`
- `encrypted_ntPwdHistory` (BLOB): The encrypted attribute `ntPwdHistory`.
- `ntPwdHistory` (JSON): JSON list representing the history of NT hashes of the account if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None.
    - Example: `["4e9f909d3a0fe9b1a7c726f882573635", "32ebda198689b00ca142d270f7759f0d"]`
- `accountExpires` (INTEGER): The date at which the account expires **as a datetime object representation**.
- `UAC_flags` (JSON): A JSON object containing the value of each user account control flag.
    - Example: `{"SCRIPT": false, "ACCOUNTDISABLE": false, "HOMEDIR_REQUIRED": false, "LOCKOUT": false, "PASSWD_NOTREQD": false, "PASSWD_CANT_CHANGE": false, "ENCRYPTED_TEXT_PWD_ALLOWED": false, "TEMP_DUPLICATE_ACCOUNT": false, "NORMAL_ACCOUNT": true, "INTERDOMAIN_TRUST_ACCOUNT": false, "WORKSTATION_TRUST_ACCOUNT": false, "SERVER_TRUST_ACCOUNT": false, "DONT_EXPIRE_PASSWORD": true, "MNS_LOGON_ACCOUNT": false, "SMARTCARD_REQUIRED": false, "TRUSTED_FOR_DELEGATION": false, "NOT_DELEGATED": false, "USE_DES_KEY_ONLY": false, "DONT_REQ_PREAUTH": true, "PASSWORD_EXPIRED": false, "TRUSTED_TO_AUTH_FOR_DELEGATION": false, "PARTIAL_SECRETS_ACCOUNT": false}`
- `parent_OU` (INTEGER): The organizational unit this account is in, as a INTEGER foreign key to the `organizational_units` table.
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the account. Example: 'CN=john,CN=Users,DC=windomain,DC=local'.
- `isDeleted` (BOOLEAN): A boolean to indicate if this object has been deleted and is in the recycle bin.
- `primaryGroup` (INTEGER): The primary group of this account as an INTEGER foreign key to the `groups` table.
- `memberOf` (JSON): A JSON list of group identifiers in the `groups` table this account is member of. Ex. [4033, 4088, 4089, 4091, 4094]
- `isDisabled` (BOOLEAN): A shortcut to know wether the account is disabled or not (based on the user account control).

## Table `machine_accounts`

This table stores machine accounts information (object class `Computer`).

The columns are the exact same as the `user_accounts` table, it is just used to set them appart more easily when using the database.

## Table `groups`

This table store groups information (object class `Group`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the group object in the NTDS database (Ex. 2042).
- `name` (TEXT): The name of the group (Ex. 'Remote Desktop Users').
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the group (Ex. 'Remote Desktop Users').
- `samaccountname` (TEXT): The Sam Account Name of the group (Ex. 'Remote Desktop Users').
- `SID` (TEXT): The security identifier of the group. Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513-512'.
- `domain` (INTEGER): The related domain object as a foreign key in the `domains` table.
- `isDeleted` (BOOLEAN): A boolean to tell wether this object has been deleted and is in the recycle bin.
- `description` (TEXT): The description of the group object.
- `memberOf` (JSON): A list of other groups identifiers describing group membership. Ex: `[5133, 5213]`.

## Table `organizational_units`

A table storing organizational units information (object class `Organization-Unit`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The object identifier in the NTDS database.
- `name` (TEXT): The name of the OU.
- `description` (TEXT): The description of the OU.
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the OU.
- `parent` (INTEGER): The identifier of the OU in which this one is in.
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the OU (Ex. 'OU=ServiceAccounts,OU=BDE,OU=Tier 1,DC=windomain,DC=local').
- `isDeleted` (BOOLEAN): A boolean to tell wether this object has been removed and is in the recycle bin.

## Table `trusted_domains`

A table to store information about trusted domains (object class `Trusted-Domain`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The object identifier in the NTDS database.
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the related other domain.
- `name` (TEXT): The "name" of the related other domain (not sure how it should be different from the common name 🤷).
- `trustAttributes` (INTEGER): The value of the Trust-Attributes attribute.
- `trustDirection` (TEXT): The direction of the trust relation, either `disabled` if the trust relation is disabled, `inbound`, `outbound` or `bidirectional`.
- `trustPartner` (TEXT): The full domain name of the related trust domain (just like cn and name but trustPartner is supposed to hold the entire domain name).
- `trustType` (TEXT): The type of the trust, either `downlevel`, `uplevel`, `MIT` or `DCE` (See the [Microsoft Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-adts/36565693-b5e4-4f37-b0a8-c1b12138e18e) for more details).
- `attributeFlags` (JSON): A dictionary of attribute flags held in the the `trustAttributes` integer, but parsed to be easily accessed (contains information about transitivity for example).

## Table ???

The process of adding object classes and attributes is quite straightforward if these are not complex references to other intricate stuff. If you need something else which is not retrieved yet, open an issue or a PR ! There is basically one python file for each object class parsed. Objects are retrieved based on their class name directly ! The full list is available in the Microsoft documentation [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/classes).

Commit message:

Various bug fixes and better domain referencing in user and machine objects

sql_model.md, after:

# SQL Model

# Generalities

Every record in the database has a unique identifier (`id` column). These identifiers are unique database wide, not because they are generated but because they are directly extracted from the NTDS database.

A few choices of data representation are made to make them more easily accessible. For example, dates and duration are represented in seconds or Unix Epoch timestamps, instead of the Microsoft standard representation (number of intervals of 100 nanoseconds elapsed since 1601 😠).

All of the columns can be `NULL` when no data was availabe or to represent the absence of something (example: Null for password last set attribute meaning the password was never set).

If a SYSTEM hive is provided, data will be decrypted. The encrypted version of the associated columns are kept under columns with the `_encrypted_` prefix in their name. These columns are not present if no decryptions has occured.

## Table `domains`

This table only has one record representing the domain object (object class `Domain-DNS`), it has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the object in the NTDS database (Example: 2042).
- `name` (TEXT): The full name of the domain (Example: 'windomain.local').
- `netbiosname` (TEXT): The NBT Name of the domain (Example: 'WINDOMAIN')
- `functionallevel` (TEXT): The functional level of the domain, on of the following values: `2000`, `2003`, `2008`, `2008R2`, `2012`, `2012R2` or `2016`.
- `GUID` (TEXT): The GUID of the domain (Ex. '822850bc-e868-4e83-bbb1-9f8fcde73355').
- `gplink` (TEXT): The GPLink attribute of the domain.
- `SID` (TEXT): The SID of the domain (Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513').
- `machineAccountQuota` (INTEGER): The machine-account-quota attribute of the domain (Ex. 10).
- `maxPwdAge` (INTEGER): The maxPwdAge attribute of the domain, **in seconds** (Ex. 3628800).
- `lockoutDuration` (INTEGER): The lockout-duration attribute of the domain **in seconds** (Ex. 60).
- `minPwdLength` (INTEGER): The minimum password length of the domain object (Ex. 7).
- `pwdHistoryLength` (INTEGER): The password history length of the domain objects (Ex. 24).
- `minPwdAge` (INTEGER): The minPwdAge attribute of the domain **in seconds** (Ex. 86400).
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the domain (Ex. 'DC=windomain,DC=local')

## Table `domain_dns`

This table contains all `domainDNS` records, not only the one representing the main domain. It has information in common with the `domain` table, but it contains every DNS zone, not only the main.

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the object in the NTDS database (Ex. 2042).
- - `name` (TEXT): The full name of the domain zone (Example: 'windomain.local').
- `netbiosname` (TEXT): The NBT Name of the domain zone (Example: 'WINDOMAIN')
- `GUID` (TEXT): The GUID of the domain zone (Ex. '822850bc-e868-4e83-bbb1-9f8fcde73355').
- `gplink` (TEXT): The GPLink attribute of the domain zone.
- `SID` (TEXT): The SID of the domain zone (Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513').
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the domain zone (Ex. 'DC=windomain,DC=local')

## Table `user_accounts`

This table stores user accounts (object class `Person`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the object in the NTDS databse (Ex. 2042).
- `encrypted_nthash` (BLOB): The encrypted NT hash as a binary blob.
- `nthash` (TEXT): The NT Hash (NTLM hash) of the account as a string if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None (Ex. '31d6cfe0d16ae931b73c59d7e0c089c0').
- `encrypted_lmhash` (BLOB): The encrypted LM hash as a binary blob.
- `lmhash` (TEXT): The LM hash of the account as a string if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None (Ex. 'aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee').)
- `UAC` (INTEGER): The user account control value as an integer (Ex. 4260352).
- `description` (TEXT): The description of the account (Ex. 'Built-in account for guest access to the computer/domain').
- `lastLogonTimestamp` (INTEGER): Timestamp **as a datetime representation** of the last time the account was used.
- `pwdlastset` (INTEGER): Timestamp **as a datetime representation** of the last time the password was set for this account.
- `admincount` (INTEGER): The admin-count attribute of the object (Example: 0). 
- `displayName` (TEXT): The display name of the account. 
- `GUID` (TEXT): The GUID of the object (Ex. 'b5c2765f-024a-47a7-b0d4-18b8783d54ed')
- `SID` (TEXT): The SID of the account (Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513-502')
- `SPN` (JSON): The list of service principal names of the account. This list is represented as a valid JSON list (Ex. `["https/HREWLPT1000004", "kafka/TSTWAPPS1000000"]`)
- `domain` (INTEGER): A foreign key to the associated domain object.
- `UPN` (TEXT): The user principal name of the account (Ex. 'FOO_BAR@windomain.local').
- `login` (TEXT): The login of the account. It is either the left part of the UPN if it has one, or the samaccountname (Ex. 'FOO_BAR').
- `samaccountname` (TEXT): The Sam Account Name of the account (Ex. 'FOO_BAR').
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the account (Ex. 'FOO_BAR').
- `encrypted_supplementalCredentials` (BLOB): The encrypted supplemental credentials blob.
- `supplementalCredentials` (JSON): Decrypted JSON list representing additional credentials stored in the object if the SYSTEM hive is provided, else None. These are mainly kerberos keys, or plaintext credentials when the flag `store password with reversible encryption` is set. It is a list of 2-tuples containing the type of key it represents, and the associated value.
    - Example: `[["aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96", "2fbb870186116974c53a0a8ed472bdd78c277305e7174f540ce3239340a8f33f"], ["aes128-cts-hmac-sha1-96", "a62b241a5e02eef50503ce5efd7728f1"], ["des-cbc-md5", "badfa8e9cd0ee5ba"], ["cleartext", "hunter2"]]`.
- `encrypted_lmPwdHistory` (BLOB): The encrypted attribute `lmPwdHistory`.
- `lmPwdHistory` (JSON): JSON list representing the history of LM hashes of the account if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None.
    - Example: `["db6aaf42a0a9aa7818ab94e45e093787", "9216c6bb1c679145c44870b8ace24e98"]`
- `encrypted_ntPwdHistory` (BLOB): The encrypted attribute `ntPwdHistory`.
- `ntPwdHistory` (JSON): JSON list representing the history of NT hashes of the account if the SYSTEM hive is provided else None.
    - Example: `["4e9f909d3a0fe9b1a7c726f882573635", "32ebda198689b00ca142d270f7759f0d"]`
- `accountExpires` (INTEGER): The date at which the account expires **as a datetime object representation**.
- `UAC_flags` (JSON): A JSON object containing the value of each user account control flag.
    - Example: `{"SCRIPT": false, "ACCOUNTDISABLE": false, "HOMEDIR_REQUIRED": false, "LOCKOUT": false, "PASSWD_NOTREQD": false, "PASSWD_CANT_CHANGE": false, "ENCRYPTED_TEXT_PWD_ALLOWED": false, "TEMP_DUPLICATE_ACCOUNT": false, "NORMAL_ACCOUNT": true, "INTERDOMAIN_TRUST_ACCOUNT": false, "WORKSTATION_TRUST_ACCOUNT": false, "SERVER_TRUST_ACCOUNT": false, "DONT_EXPIRE_PASSWORD": true, "MNS_LOGON_ACCOUNT": false, "SMARTCARD_REQUIRED": false, "TRUSTED_FOR_DELEGATION": false, "NOT_DELEGATED": false, "USE_DES_KEY_ONLY": false, "DONT_REQ_PREAUTH": true, "PASSWORD_EXPIRED": false, "TRUSTED_TO_AUTH_FOR_DELEGATION": false, "PARTIAL_SECRETS_ACCOUNT": false}`
- `parent_OU` (INTEGER): The organizational unit this account is in, as a INTEGER foreign key to the `organizational_units` table.
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the account. Example: 'CN=john,CN=Users,DC=windomain,DC=local'.
- `isDeleted` (BOOLEAN): A boolean to indicate if this object has been deleted and is in the recycle bin.
- `primaryGroup` (INTEGER): The primary group of this account as an INTEGER foreign key to the `groups` table.
- `memberOf` (JSON): A JSON list of group identifiers in the `groups` table this account is member of. Ex. [4033, 4088, 4089, 4091, 4094]
- `isDisabled` (BOOLEAN): A shortcut to know wether the account is disabled or not (based on the user account control).

## Table `machine_accounts`

This table stores machine accounts information (object class `Computer`).

The columns are the exact same as the `user_accounts` table, it is just used to set them appart more easily when using the database.

## Table `groups`

This table store groups information (object class `Group`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The identifier of the group object in the NTDS database (Ex. 2042).
- `name` (TEXT): The name of the group (Ex. 'Remote Desktop Users').
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the group (Ex. 'Remote Desktop Users').
- `samaccountname` (TEXT): The Sam Account Name of the group (Ex. 'Remote Desktop Users').
- `SID` (TEXT): The security identifier of the group. Ex. 'S-1-5-21-2834339972-2568791593-173547513-512'.
- `domain` (INTEGER): The related domain object as a foreign key in the `domains` table.
- `isDeleted` (BOOLEAN): A boolean to tell wether this object has been deleted and is in the recycle bin.
- `description` (TEXT): The description of the group object.
- `memberOf` (JSON): A list of other groups identifiers describing group membership. Ex: `[5133, 5213]`.

## Table `organizational_units`

A table storing organizational units information (object class `Organization-Unit`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The object identifier in the NTDS database.
- `name` (TEXT): The name of the OU.
- `description` (TEXT): The description of the OU.
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the OU.
- `parent` (INTEGER): The identifier of the OU in which this one is in.
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the OU (Ex. 'OU=ServiceAccounts,OU=BDE,OU=Tier 1,DC=windomain,DC=local').
- `isDeleted` (BOOLEAN): A boolean to tell wether this object has been removed and is in the recycle bin.
- `domain` (INTEGER): An integer foreign key to `domain_dns` on its `id` column, representing the exact domain zone to which this OUs belongs.

## Table `trusted_domains`

A table to store information about trusted domains (object class `Trusted-Domain`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The object identifier in the NTDS database.
- `commonname` (TEXT): The common name of the related other domain.
- `name` (TEXT): The "name" of the related other domain (not sure how it should be different from the common name 🤷).
- `trustAttributes` (INTEGER): The value of the Trust-Attributes attribute.
- `trustDirection` (TEXT): The direction of the trust relation, either `disabled` if the trust relation is disabled, `inbound`, `outbound` or `bidirectional`.
- `trustPartner` (TEXT): The full domain name of the related trust domain (just like cn and name but trustPartner is supposed to hold the entire domain name).
- `trustType` (TEXT): The type of the trust, either `downlevel`, `uplevel`, `MIT` or `DCE` (See the [Microsoft Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-adts/36565693-b5e4-4f37-b0a8-c1b12138e18e) for more details).
- `attributeFlags` (JSON): A dictionary of attribute flags held in the the `trustAttributes` integer, but parsed to be easily accessed (contains information about transitivity for example).

## Table `containers`

A table storing Container information (object class `Container`). It has the following columns:

- `id` (INTEGER): The object identifier in the NTDS database.
- `name` (TEXT): The name of the container object.
- `description` (TEXT): The description attribute of the container.
- `commonnme` (TEXT): The common name attribute of the container.
- `parent` (INTEGER): The ID in of its parent object, could be another container, a `domain_dns` object or some other kind of objects we do not retrieve.
- `dn` (TEXT): The distinguished name of the container. This column can be set to `Null` for containers having objects we do no care about in their parents (GPO Containers are not parsed for example).
- `isDeleted` (BOOL): Boolean indicating if this container is in the recycle bin of the domain.
- `domain` (INTEGER): Foreign key to `domain_dns` entries on the `id` attribute, representing the root parent domain object of this container. Can be `Null` for containers having unparsed objects in their parents (GPO Containers are not parsed for example).

## Table ???

The process of adding object classes and attributes is quite straightforward if these are not complex references to other intricate stuff. If you need something else which is not retrieved yet, open an issue or a PR ! There is basically one python file for each object class parsed. Objects are retrieved based on their class name directly ! The full list is available in the Microsoft documentation [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/adschema/classes).
